feat(lifecycle-operator): introduce option to enable lifecycle orchestration only for specific namespaces (#2244)
keptn/lifecycle-toolkit: README.md

helm upgrade --install keptn klt/klt -n keptn-lifecycle-toolkit-system --create-namespace --wait
```

### Instalation with only certain namespaces allowed

Keptn lifecycle orchestration is by default enabled for all namespaces except the following ones:

- `kube-system`
- `kube-public`
- `kube-node-lease`
- `cert-manager`
- `keptn-lifecycle-toolkit-system`
- `observability`
- `monitoring`

To enable Keptn lifecycle orchestration only to specific namespaces, you need to specify
those namespaces during instalation via helm values.
First you need to create a `values.yaml`
file

```yaml
lifecycleOperator:
  allowedNamespaces:
  - allowed-ns-1
  - allowed-ns-2
```

and add the values file to the helm instalation command:

```shell
helm repo add klt https://charts.lifecycle.keptn.sh
helm repo update
helm upgrade --install keptn klt/klt -n keptn-lifecycle-toolkit-system --values values.yaml --create-namespace --wait
```

> **Note**
Please be aware that you still need to correctly annotate the namespaces, where
Keptn lifecycle orchestration is allowed.
> To annotate them, use:

> 

Reviewer: maybe we should also add a disclaimer telling that if this option is set, any additional namespaces will require the helm installation to be updated with the name of the new namespace being added to this list - just to make it as clear as possible

helm upgrade --install keptn klt/klt -n keptn-lifecycle-toolkit-system --create-namespace --wait
```

### Installation with only certain namespaces allowed

Keptn lifecycle orchestration is by default enabled for all namespaces except the following ones:

- `kube-system`
- `kube-public`
- `kube-node-lease`
- `cert-manager`
- `keptn-lifecycle-toolkit-system`
- `observability`
- `monitoring`

To restrict Keptn lifecycle orchestration to specific namespaces, you must specify
those namespaces during installation via helm values.
First you need to create a `values.yaml`
file

```yaml
lifecycleOperator:
  allowedNamespaces:
  - allowed-ns-1
  - allowed-ns-2
```

and add the values file to the helm installation command:

```shell
helm repo add klt https://charts.lifecycle.keptn.sh
helm repo update
helm upgrade --install keptn klt/klt -n keptn-lifecycle-toolkit-system --values values.yaml --create-namespace --wait
```

> **Note**
Please be aware that you still need to correctly annotate the namespaces where
Keptn lifecycle orchestration is allowed.
> To annotate them, use:

```shell
kubectl annotate ns <your-allowed-namespace> keptn.sh/lifecycle-toolkit='enabled'
```

> **Note**

> Please be aware that,if this option is set, adding any additional namespace

Author: ```suggestion
Please be aware that, if this option is set, adding any additional namespace
```

helm upgrade --install keptn klt/klt -n keptn-lifecycle-toolkit-system --create-namespace --wait
```

> ### Instalation with only certain namespaces allowed

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Installation with only certain namespaces allowed
```

Keptn lifecycle orchestration is by default enabled for all namespaces except the following ones:

- `kube-system`
- `kube-public`
- `kube-node-lease`
- `cert-manager`
- `keptn-lifecycle-toolkit-system`
- `observability`
- `monitoring`

> To enable Keptn lifecycle orchestration only to specific namespaces, you need to specify
> those namespaces during instalation via helm values.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To restrict Keptn lifecycle orchestration to specific namespaces, you must specify
those namespaces during installation via helm values.
```

First you need to create a `values.yaml`
file

```yaml
lifecycleOperator:
  allowedNamespaces:
  - allowed-ns-1
  - allowed-ns-2
```

> and add the values file to the helm instalation command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and add the values file to the helm installation command:
```

```shell
helm repo add klt https://charts.lifecycle.keptn.sh
helm repo update
helm upgrade --install keptn klt/klt -n keptn-lifecycle-toolkit-system --values values.yaml --create-namespace --wait
```

> **Note**

> Please be aware that you still need to correctly annotate the namespaces, where

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Please be aware that you still need to correctly annotate the namespaces where
```

Keptn lifecycle orchestration is allowed.
> To annotate them, use:

```shell
kubectl annotate ns <your-allowed-namespace> keptn.sh/lifecycle-toolkit='enabled'
```

> **Note**

> Please be aware that if this option is set, adding any additional namespace will
> require the helm installation to be updated with the name of the new namespace
> being added to the list.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Please be aware that,if this option is set, adding any additional namespace
requires the helm installation to be updated by adding the name of the new namespace to the list.
```
